# Knowledge of URLs

Here's the table of contents:

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Introduction

A URL is used by a browser or other program to specify what server to connect to and what page to ask for. Like other things that will be interpreted by computer programs, URLs have a very specific formal structure. If you put a colon in the wrong place, the URL won’t work correctly. The overall structure of a URL is:  
  
<scheme>://<host>:<port>/<path>
  
Usually, the **scheme** will be http or https. The s in https stands for “secure”. When you use https, all of the communication between the two devices is encrypted. Any devices that intercepts some of the packets along the way will be unable to decrypt the contents and figure out what the data was.  
  

The **host** will usually be a domain name.  

Domain Name System, or DNS for short.  

Changes to the mapping from domain names to IP addresses can take a little while to propagate: if github.com announces a new IP address associated with its domain, it might take up to 24 hours for some computers to start translating github.com to the new IP address.  

The **:port** is optional. If it is omitted, the default port number is 80. The port number is used on the receiving end to decide which computer program should get the data that has been received.  

The **/path** is also optional. It specifies something about which page, or more generally which contents, are being requested.  

REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer. It originally had a more abstract meaning, but has come to be a shorthand name for web sites that act a bit like python functions, taking as inputs values for certain parameters and producing outputs in the form of a long text string.

API stands for Application Programming Interface. An API specifies how an external program (an application program) can request that a program perform certain computations.

Putting the two together, a REST API specifies how external programs can make HTTP requests to a web site in order to request that some computation be carried out and data returned as output. 

When a website is designed to accept requests generated by other computer programs, and produce outputs to be consumed by other programs, it is sometimes called a web service, as opposed to a web site which produces output meant for humans to consume in a web browser.





